 

Frau Bundesrätin Karin Keller-Sutter  
Vorsteherin des Eidgenössisches 
Justiz- und Polizeidepartement EJPD 
Bundeshaus West  
3003 Bern 
 
Directly per email to: 
rechtsinformatik@bj.admin.ch 

 
 
 
 
Lausanne, October 20, 2022 

CGR / SUTC 
 
 
 
 
Federal Law on Electronic Proof of Identity and Other 
Electronic Proofs of Identity (E-ID-Gesetz, BGEID) 
 
Response to the Consultation V1.3 
 
 
Dear President Keller-Sutter 
Ladies and Gentlemen 

Management Summary  
We thank you for the opportunity given to us to participate in this eID 
consultation. As ELCA Security – a daughter company of the privately owned 
information technology firm in Switzerland ELCA Informatique - we see our 
responsibility less in providing political expertise and to focus full heartedly on our 
cybersecurity and business expertise. We are proud to call some of the most 
talented developers, engineers, analysts and IT consultants of Switzerland as part 
of our team and it is our mission to provide our clients with the best solutions 
possible in the market. Hence, why we are honored to share our expertise with 
you. 
Besides our pure cybersecurity expertise, we are also active as a recognized 
identity provider in Switzerland. Since more than three years we are serving 
public administrations, all health communities as well as private companies. Thus, 

ELCA Security AG 
Av. de la Harpe 22–24 | Case postale 519 | 1001 Lausanne 
Tél. +41 21 613 21 11 | www.elcasecurity.ch 
Lausanne | Zürich | Genève | Bern | Basel | Granada | Ho Chi Minh City | Mauritius 

1 

 Response to the Consultation V1.3 

we strongly believe that our eID market expertise and experience offers 
additionally valuable input for this consultation. 
 
We would like to position ourselves on following eight points, in no order of 
priorities: 

1.  Backup and Critical Data Storage 
Referring to article 21, a system of backup must be provided either by the 
Confederation itself and/or certified providers, appointed by the government. The 
storage of such critical data must comply with the highest level of security 
standards: strict regulations – certified and audited - are required to prevent 
security breaches and abuse. 

2.  Security and Controls 
The Confederation is responsible and must guarantee compliance and authenticity 
as well as security of future wallets. Yet, as per article 14, the law would basically 
allow any application to store critical data. In our opinion, the law needs to clearly 
define the certification of applications and/or wallets. Meaning: applications must 
undergo specific security measures to be allowed to be used and installed. This 
can either be done by the government or by private providers complying with 
defined security, authentication and accreditation standards. 
In addition, the government would operate a public register with accredited 
providers. In addition, technical measure would have to be developed, to prevent 
the usage of unsecure and not accredited applications. 
Following statement, as issued in a report by the European Union Agency for 
Cybersecurity (ENISA) on digital identity, outlines: 
"A wallet is the main component of the solution and is required to be certified as 

meeting the requirements of the regulation. A wallet is held and operated by the 

user. The user should be aware of downloads and use legitimate wallet 

applications that secure keys, identity, and identification processes. An 

unauthorized wallet can cause an actual security loss for the user, leading to risks 

that include a lack of confidentiality of their data and a possible key compromise." 

3.  Auditability 
Due to the decentralized nature of the system, it will be hard to perform 
investigation in case of dispute. Consequently, law enforcement must have the 
capability to see where and when a given SSI was used (e.g. for the purpose of 
an identity theft investigation). This is especially important for issuers and 
verifiers of attributes. 

ELCA Security AG 
Av. de la Harpe 22–24 | Case postale 519 | 1001 Lausanne 
Tél. +41 21 613 21 11 | www.elcasecurity.ch 
Lausanne | Zürich | Genève | Bern | Basel | Granada | Ho Chi Minh City | Mauritius 

2 

 Response to the Consultation V1.3 

4.  Information and Citizen Awareness 
Past shows that the recent initiatives around eID and Electronic Patient Record 
(EPR) failed partially because of lack of targeted information to the citizen. The 
Confederation needs put in place regular and – even more importantly - efficient 
communication campaigns to enhance adoption by the citizens. 
In addition, as we are moving to a more decentralized approach, the responsibility 
will linearly move to the citizen itself. Hence, the Swiss population must be made 
aware of the risks and responsibilities implicated through this move! This should 
occur via effective communication and national sensibilization campaigns. 

5.  SSI Maturity 
As a technology provider and cybersecurity expert, we are encouraging 
decentralization and data minimization. However, our experience shows that 
these technologies are at a very early stage and not yet mature. Therefore we 
support following two actions: 
 

a.  Avoid any technology statements within the legal text as well as the 

ordonnance (e.g., mentioning of SSI infrastructure). 

b.  Continuous research projects to verify the feasibility of mentioned SII 

approach. 

 
Furthermore, we would like to highlight the requirement, to take security impact 
of this decentralization into account from the very beginning. 

6.  Monetization 
We agree, as outlined in article 26, that the eID must be free for all citizen and 
issuers. A fee should be applied wherever an attribute is issued or in return is 
consumed. 
Yet, there should be a clear distinction between regulated and non-regulated 
attributes as it is also described in the “Regulation for European Digital Identity”: 
”With a free distributed service and a free and liberal market, the risk is that the 

citizen becomes a hostage of international tech providers that would monetize 

their data and breach data privacy.” Basically, if it’s free then the user becomes 
the product. The Confederation must put in place control measures to avoid this 
kind of developments. 

ELCA Security AG 
Av. de la Harpe 22–24 | Case postale 519 | 1001 Lausanne 
Tél. +41 21 613 21 11 | www.elcasecurity.ch 
Lausanne | Zürich | Genève | Bern | Basel | Granada | Ho Chi Minh City | Mauritius 

3 

 Response to the Consultation V1.3 

7.  Offline Mode 
The use of the eID and its identification verification process must operate equally 
offline as well as in online mode: In a country like ours, with extensive and rough 
nature (Alps), the system must be fully operational in offline mode and must in no 
case dependent on network access and availability! This is especially important 
because the foreseen usage of an eID will be more and more linked to physical 
real life use cases, where we cannot expect the citizen to have internet/network 
access. 

8.  Backwards Compatibility and Interoperability 
As an IdP provider with extensive experience as issuer of ID e.g., for Electronic 
Patient Record (EPR) access, we ask that the new eID law will foresee and ensure 
continuous access for such existing verified identities, at least for a certain period 
of time: we recommend a minimum of 5 years. 
Today, many actors - such as cantons - are already active identity providers. 
Therefore, this requirement is especially important, not to interrupt or risk 
continuous digitalization efforts. Also, because there are and will not be any 
alternative solutions available meanwhile and for the coming few years! These 
identity providers need to be certain that the new system will be interoperable. A 
complete migration of existing eID will not be acceptable for them. 
Even more important: a backward compatibility with already certified identities in 
use within the health domain, specifically speaking the Electronic Patient Record 
(EPD), must be ensured and new registration of these citizens must be avoided. 

Conclusion 
We are very pleased to see that this subject has gained in importance and are 
hoping that we will have soon clarification on the way ahead. 
We are part of the actors in the market, who have invested a lot in this topic in 
recent years → eID and EPD. Our expectation is that these efforts will be 
recognized and that companies, such as ours, will be considered and involved in 
the development of the new system as soon as possible. We believe a private-
public partnership to be a good solution in this case! Thank you for your time and 
consideration. 

ELCA Security AG 
Av. de la Harpe 22–24 | Case postale 519 | 1001 Lausanne 
Tél. +41 21 613 21 11 | www.elcasecurity.ch 
Lausanne | Zürich | Genève | Bern | Basel | Granada | Ho Chi Minh City | Mauritius 

4 

